happy Halloween is the BBC good food
team here and today we're going to be
showing you three very different ways to
carve your Halloween pumpkin so I'm
going to be carving a very simple face
design and I'm going to be using the
insides of the pumpkin Marianne what are
you doing
I'm gonna be doing a Dalek and Doctor
Who Jocelyn and I'm not the best Carver
in the world so I'm gonna show you a new
tip of using a drill to do a nice
shooting star pattern so first things
first all our pumpkins have been
hollowed out so on good food we cut the
candle hole in at the bottom because a
it's a lot easier to put your candle in
there's your candle it just sits in the
bottom easier and it's a lot easier and
safer to light and also you get the
whole shape of the pumpkin so it looks a
lot more impressive so first things
first I am going to stick my stencil on
to the side and then I'm just going to
dot the lines as you would do
traditionally Mary and what you do so
I've cut my Dalek out already and I fold
some sellotape on the back and and then
I'm going to use that to draw around it
so I've got the initial shape and then
I'm going to use some liner cutting
tools to cut the design on and I am
going to freehand draw a star on my
pumpkin with a shooting star shape
coming off of there in like a wiggling
pattern
as you can see I've drawn a star on the
front of my pumpkin and I'm just going
to go in a shooting motion around the
pumpkin and you can go all the way
around or as far as you like as long as
you stay in these lines when you're
drilling it will look amazing so now
I've drawn all the way around the Dalek
you want to take that off and I use a
small knife just to go around the lines
that I've drawn and that would give me a
starting point for the linocut tool so I
can do some light bursts coming out so
I've used the really simple designs this
is one for kids to do and I've just
sellotape that to the pumpkin and we're
just going to go along the outline of
the stencil just using a sharp pencil
again this is something kids can do so
I'm just using a skewer now to mark all
of the corner points of my star which
I'm then going to use a knife to cut
around the whole star to get my nice
star shape so I'm just going around with
this fine liner cut tool but you can
also use a slightly wider one if you
want to make bigger shapes and that's
quite good if you've got a clear a big
area in the middle I'm just cutting
through the top layer of the skin
because then the lights gonna glow
through instead of shining brightly I'm
now using my knife to cut around the
star so I can pop it through the pumpkin
and have a star shape cut out so come
around the whole stem so they just
remove the paper and the outline of the
stencil it's on the pumpkin we're going
to cut out with a knife
so I've hollowed out my star now if
you've got any bits in the middle that
are a bit untidy you can always use a
spoon or a skewer to just neaten it up a
little bit once you've done that you can
start with your drilling and I used
pencil as a guide for my shooting star
shape earlier but feel free to go out
the lines or do whatever you want I've
got a small drill attachment right now
but you can always change the drill
attachment so you've got bigger holes
and smaller holes it will look a bit
more fun if you do that so I'm literally
going in and I'm just gonna start
drilling loads of holes all in between
the lines when you drill all your little
holes you might get some pumpkin coming
through the holes so grab a toothpick
and just pop it straight into the holes
to make it clearer and that way your
light will shine through better how are
you getting on bonus yep fine so as I
said before it's a really simple design
so here's a tip once you've joined the
dots on a shape the easiest way to get
it out to put your hand through the
candle hole or just a pop shape out and
use your knife to clean it up and cut
away any raggedy bits of pumpkin from
the inside so now I've got my main shape
cut out I'm gonna start drawing on the
rest of the detail which I can start
cutting in and if you want any really
really bright areas like I quite like a
really bright bit on the eye stalk or
maybe on this little light here I can
cut all the way through and that will
really shine out so all that's left to
do is to light your candle or if you're
being super child friendly you can use
an LED light just gonna hide your candle
then what's going to make this design
really effective is we use the insides
of the pumpkin to make it look like the
pumpkins being sick so you just take a
pumpkin that you've carved out
he's being sick looks like the pumpkin
is being sick here's a really simple
design you can do with kids with an
extra twist to make it extra effective
so Chelsea sir mine's all done as you
can see I've drilled all the way around
in a swirling motion but you can do
whatever you like I'm not a confident
Carver so if you're not either a drill
is definitely the way forward and mine's
done as well and so that's brain if you
want to get really really creative and
use some liner cut tools and do any
design you like that looks amazing
doesn't incredible Maria thanks viii so
there's three very different techniques
on how to carve a pumpkin from BBC good
food happy Halloween
[Music]